---
title: Authorization
description: ContentStash provides a simple but powerful authorization system that allows you to define permissions for users and roles.
badges:
  - value: Since v0.1.0
    type: secondary
    icon: lucide:git-pull-request-arrow
    to: https://github.com/contentstash/contentstash/releases/tag/v0.1.0
    target: _blank
---

## Overview

ContentStash provides a simple but powerful authorization system that allows you to define permissions for users and roles. This system is based on [Laravel-Permission](https://spatie.be/docs/laravel-permission/v6/introduction){:target="_blank"}.

## Roles

Roles can be assigned to users and have permissions which define what actions a user with that role can perform. A user can have multiple roles.

## Permissions

Permissions define what actions a user can perform. A permission can be assigned to multiple roles. For each resource ContentStash provides a set of default permissions for viewing a list of items, view a single item, create, update, and delete items.

## System Roles

ContentStash comes with the following system roles (which cannot be deleted or renamed):

### everyone

This role is assigned to all users **AND** guests. It is used to define permissions that apply to everyone.

### guest

This role is assigned to all guests. It is used to define permissions that apply to guests. This role is automatically assigned to all users who are not logged in and **CANNOT** be assigned to users manually.

### user

This role is assigned to all users. It is used to define permissions that apply to all users. This role is automatically assigned to all users who are logged in and **CANNOT** be assigned to users manually.

### admin

This role is assigned to all users who have the `admin` permission. It is used to define permissions that apply to administrators.

## Custom Roles

::alert{type="info" icon="lucide:info"}
TODO: This feature is still under construction. In the future, you will be able to create custom roles.
::