---
title: Attribute Type Registry
description: The attribute type registry is a central place to register and manage attribute types.
badges:
  - value: Since v0.1.0
    type: secondary
    icon: lucide:git-pull-request-arrow
    to: https://github.com/contentstash/contentstash/releases/tag/v0.1.0
    target: _blank
  - value: Source
    icon: lucide:external-link
    to: https://github.com/contentstash/contentstash/blob/main/packages/core/src/Services/AttributeTypeRegistry.php
    target: _blank
---

## Overview

The **Attribute Type Registry** centralizes the registration and management of attribute types. It uses a **singleton pattern**, ensuring consistent access and modification of attribute types across the application lifecycle.

To use the singleton, you can directly access it via `AttributeTypeRegistry`.

## Key Features

- **Centralized Management**: Attribute types are stored and managed in a unified location.
- **Singleton Design**: Guarantees a single instance of the registry.
- **Dynamic Registration**: Supports both single and bulk registration of attribute types.
- **Querying**: Retrieve specific attribute types by their `phpType` and `type` properties.

## Usage

### Import

Add the following import at the beginning of your file when using this registry:

```php
use AttributeTypeRegistry;
```

### Registering Attribute Types

You can register custome attribute types either individually or in bulk.

#### Registering a Single Attribute Type

To register a single attribute type:

```php
AttributeTypeRegistry::register(MyCustomAttributeType::class);
```

This will add `MyCustomAttributeType` to the registry.

#### Registering Multiple Attribute Types

To register multiple attribute types at once, you can use the `registerMany` method. Here's an example with dummy data:

```php
AttributeTypeRegistry::registerMany([
    MyCustomAttributeType::class,
    AnotherAttributeType::class,
    ExampleAttributeType::class,
]);
```

:read-more{to="/guide/going-further/custom-attribute-type"}

### Querying Registered Types

You can retrieve specific attribute types using the `get` method. This method allows for exact (both `phpType` and `type` must match) or  by using a fallback to just the `phpType` if no exact match is found.

```php
$type = AttributeTypeRegistry::get('string', 'customType');
$exactType = AttributeTypeRegistry::get('string', 'customType', true);
```

If no matching type is found, `null` is returned.

### Retrieving All Registered Types

To retrieve all registered attribute types, use the following methods:

```php
$allTypes = AttributeTypeRegistry::all();
$allTypesArray = AttributeTypeRegistry::allAsArray();
```
